AGENT-DRAFT: AM-6321 — Protected Resource Management & Token Exchange Enhancements (#1179)
gravitee-io-labs/beta-docs: docs/am/4.11/guides/protected-resources/README.md

### Overview

Protected Resources now support secret management, certificate binding, membership control, and search capabilities. These enhancements enable Protected Resources to participate in token introspection workflows and token exchange scenarios, particularly for MCP Server integrations. Administrators can manage multiple secrets per resource, assign certificates for mTLS authentication, and control access through role-based memberships.

### Key Concepts

#### Protected Resource Secrets

Protected Resources maintain a list of client secrets for authentication. Each secret has a unique ID, optional name, expiration date, and associated settings. At least one secret must exist at all times. Secrets can be created, renewed (generating a new value while preserving metadata), or deleted. The system automatically generates secure random values and tracks expiration for notification purposes.

#### Certificate Binding

> Protected Resources can reference a certificate for mTLS authentication scenarios. The certificate field stores a certificate ID that must exist in the domain's certificate store. Certificate deletion is blocked if any Protected Resource references it, preventing broken authentication configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Protected Resources can reference a certificate for token signature. The certificate field stores a certificate ID that must exist in the domain's certificate store. Certificate deletion is blocked if any Protected Resource references it, preventing broken authentication configurations.
```
